README.md, before:

<div align="center">

```
 ███████╗██████╗ ██████╗
 ██╔════╝██╔══██╗██╔══██╗
 ███████╗██║  ██║██║  ██║
 ╚════██║██║  ██║██║  ██║
 ███████║██████╔╝██████╔╝
 ╚══════╝╚═════╝ ╚═════╝
  Skill-Driven Development
```

**Specialized skill files for AI coding agents**
*Spring Boot · .NET · REST APIs · Database · Testing · Bootstrap · Planning · Review · Refactor*

</div>

## What is SDD?

SDD (Skill-Driven Development) gives AI agents persistent context via `.agent/` files and stack skills.

## Repository structure

```text
skills/
├── spring-boot/
│   ├── SKILL.md
│   └── testing.md
├── dotnet/
│   ├── SKILL.md
│   └── testing.md
└── shared/
    ├── api-design.md
    ├── database.md
    ├── security.md
    ├── observability.md
    ├── error-handling.md
    ├── bootstrap.md
    ├── planning.md          # @planning → @implementation flow
    ├── implementation.md    # @planning → @implementation flow
    ├── test-plan.md         # @test-plan → @test flow
    ├── test.md              # @test-plan → @test flow
    ├── review.md            # independent
    └── refactor.md          # independent

scripts/
├── install.sh
├── validate.sh
├── generate.sh
└── new-skill.sh

templates/
├── spring-boot/SKILLS.md
├── dotnet/SKILLS.md
└── common/
    ├── context.md
    ├── architecture.md
    ├── decisions.md
    ├── conventions.md
    ├── runbook.md
    ├── glossary.md
    └── backlog_rules.md
```

## Install

### Option 1: one-line install (curl)

```bash
bash <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/valossa515/sdd/main/scripts/install.sh) spring-boot
bash <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/valossa515/sdd/main/scripts/install.sh) dotnet
```

### Option 2: install via `git clone` (recommended for teams)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/valossa515/sdd.git /tmp/sdd && \
  make -C /tmp/sdd install STACK=spring-boot TARGET=$(pwd)

# .NET
make -C /tmp/sdd install STACK=dotnet TARGET=$(pwd)
```

### Option 3: run from local clone

```bash
make install STACK=spring-boot TARGET=$(pwd)
# full flow: validate + generate + install
make bootstrap STACK=spring-boot TARGET=$(pwd)
```

## Commands

```bash
make validate      # validates frontmatter + required context templates
make generate      # generates .toml files into outputs/
make install       # installs .agent/ for chosen stack
make bootstrap     # validate + generate + install in one flow
make check         # validate + generate
```

## How to use skills in your project

After installation, your project will have `.agent/SKILLS.md` plus stack/shared skills.

### 1) Instruct your agent to always load `.agent/SKILLS.md`

Use prompts like:

```text
Read .agent/SKILLS.md and all linked skills before writing code.
```

### 2) Example prompts for Spring Boot projects

```text
Read .agent/SKILLS.md.
Create endpoint POST /api/v1/orders following skills/shared/api-design.md,
use validation and RFC7807 errors, and add tests based on skills/spring-boot/testing.md.
```

```text
Read .agent/SKILLS.md.
Refactor Order module to respect layered architecture from skills/spring-boot/SKILL.md
and database conventions from skills/shared/database.md.
```

### 3) Example prompts for .NET projects

```text
Read .agent/SKILLS.md.
Implement CreateOrderCommand with MediatR + FluentValidation,
expose controller endpoint, and add unit/integration tests using skills/dotnet/testing.md.
```

```text
Read .agent/SKILLS.md.
Add pagination and ProblemDetails responses to Orders endpoints
following skills/shared/api-design.md.
```

### 4) Keep project-specific rules in `.agent/SKILLS.md`

In **Overrides específicos do projeto**, add concrete rules such as:

- package/solution naming
- auth strategy
- migration paths
- non-functional constraints (timeouts, observability, etc.)

## How to use bootstrap (`@bootstrap`)

The shared `bootstrap` skill helps create/update project context docs in `.agent/`:

- `context.md`
- `architecture.md`
- `decisions.md` (or `adr/`)
- `conventions.md`
- `runbook.md`
- `glossary.md`
- `backlog_rules.md`

### Prompt-driven bootstrap

Use in prompt:

```text
@bootstrap
Read .agent/SKILLS.md, map the repository context, and update all .agent context files.
Do not invent facts: add TODOs for unknowns.
```

### CLI bootstrap (recommended)

```bash
make bootstrap STACK=spring-boot TARGET=$(pwd)
# or
make bootstrap STACK=dotnet TARGET=$(pwd)
```

This guarantees validation and generation happen before installation.

### Suggested bootstrap routine per project

1. Run `make bootstrap STACK=<stack> TARGET=$(pwd)`.
2. Open `.agent/context.md` and fill domain/problem details.
3. Register key architectural choices in `.agent/decisions.md` or `.agent/adr/`.
4. Update `.agent/glossary.md` with domain terminology.
5. Commit `.agent/` together with code changes.

## Invocable skills

SDD includes 6 invocable workflow skills organized in two flows plus two independent skills:

### Feature flow: `@planning` → `@implementation`

| Command | Skill | Purpose |
|---------|-------|---------|
| `@planning` | [planning.md](skills/shared/planning.md) | Design a feature before coding — produces a plan document |
| `@implementation` | [implementation.md](skills/shared/implementation.md) | Execute a plan — implements tasks in order following conventions |

```text
@planning
Plan the feature: user registration with email verification

# After plan review:
@implementation
Execute the plan in .agent/plans/user-registration.md
```

### Test flow: `@test-plan` → `@test`

| Command | Skill | Purpose |
|---------|-------|---------|
| `@test-plan` | [test-plan.md](skills/shared/test-plan.md) | Design a testing strategy — produces a test plan document |
| `@test` | [test.md](skills/shared/test.md) | Write all tests from the plan — unit, integration, edge cases |

```text
@test-plan
Plan tests for the Order module

# After test plan review:
@test
Execute the test plan in .agent/plans/order-tests.md
```

### Independent skills: `@review` and `@refactor`

| Command | Skill | Purpose |
|---------|-------|---------|
| `@review` | [review.md](skills/shared/review.md) | Structured code review against project skills and conventions |
| `@refactor` | [refactor.md](skills/shared/refactor.md) | Restructure code to align with conventions without changing behavior |

```text
@review
Review the changes in the current branch against main.

@refactor
Refactor the Order module to follow skills/spring-boot/SKILL.md layer separation.
```

## Frontmatter required in all skills

Every skill markdown must include:

- `name`
- `description`
- `stack`
- `versions`

## ADR and glossary

Document architecture decisions in `decisions.md` (or `.agent/adr/adr-xxxx.md`) and keep domain terms in `glossary.md`.


## Troubleshooting: PR merge/diff issues

If a PR was merged with conflicts and your branch did not receive the README updates:

1. Confirm the latest commit contains README changes:
   - `git log --oneline -n 5`
   - `git show --name-only <commit_sha>`
2. Rebase your branch on the target branch (`main` or release branch).
3. If needed, cherry-pick the README commit:
   - `git cherry-pick <commit_sha>`
4. Re-run checks:
   - `make check`
5. Open README and confirm sections:
   - "How to use skills in your project"
   - "How to use bootstrap (`@bootstrap`)"

This helps guarantee onboarding docs are present after merge.

## License

MIT.

Commit message:

Add make upgrade target to pull latest skills and reinstall in one step
Combines update (git pull + generate) with install, so projects
that already have SDD can update with a single command:
  make upgrade STACK=spring-boot TARGET=~/my-project

https://claude.ai/code/session_01HK4ZJKJwXR1fk1krqfqV6c

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

```
 ███████╗██████╗ ██████╗
 ██╔════╝██╔══██╗██╔══██╗
 ███████╗██║  ██║██║  ██║
 ╚════██║██║  ██║██║  ██║
 ███████║██████╔╝██████╔╝
 ╚══════╝╚═════╝ ╚═════╝
  Skill-Driven Development
```

**Specialized skill files for AI coding agents**
*Spring Boot · .NET · REST APIs · Database · Testing · Bootstrap · Planning · Review · Refactor*

</div>

## What is SDD?

SDD (Skill-Driven Development) gives AI agents persistent context via `.agent/` files and stack skills.

## Repository structure

```text
skills/
├── spring-boot/
│   ├── SKILL.md
│   └── testing.md
├── dotnet/
│   ├── SKILL.md
│   └── testing.md
└── shared/
    ├── api-design.md
    ├── database.md
    ├── security.md
    ├── observability.md
    ├── error-handling.md
    ├── bootstrap.md
    ├── planning.md          # @planning → @implementation flow
    ├── implementation.md    # @planning → @implementation flow
    ├── test-plan.md         # @test-plan → @test flow
    ├── test.md              # @test-plan → @test flow
    ├── review.md            # independent
    └── refactor.md          # independent

scripts/
├── install.sh
├── validate.sh
├── generate.sh
└── new-skill.sh

templates/
├── spring-boot/SKILLS.md
├── dotnet/SKILLS.md
└── common/
    ├── context.md
    ├── architecture.md
    ├── decisions.md
    ├── conventions.md
    ├── runbook.md
    ├── glossary.md
    └── backlog_rules.md
```

## Install

### Option 1: one-line install (curl)

```bash
bash <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/valossa515/sdd/main/scripts/install.sh) spring-boot
bash <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/valossa515/sdd/main/scripts/install.sh) dotnet
```

### Option 2: install via `git clone` (recommended for teams)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/valossa515/sdd.git /tmp/sdd && \
  make -C /tmp/sdd install STACK=spring-boot TARGET=$(pwd)

# .NET
make -C /tmp/sdd install STACK=dotnet TARGET=$(pwd)
```

### Option 3: run from local clone

```bash
make install STACK=spring-boot TARGET=$(pwd)
# full flow: validate + generate + install
make bootstrap STACK=spring-boot TARGET=$(pwd)
```

## Commands

```bash
make validate      # validates frontmatter + required context templates
make generate      # generates .toml files into outputs/
make install       # installs .agent/ for chosen stack
make bootstrap     # validate + generate + install in one flow
make update        # pull latest skills and regenerate
make upgrade       # update + install (update SDD in an existing project)
make check         # validate + generate
```

## How to use skills in your project

After installation, your project will have `.agent/SKILLS.md` plus stack/shared skills.

### 1) Instruct your agent to always load `.agent/SKILLS.md`

Use prompts like:

```text
Read .agent/SKILLS.md and all linked skills before writing code.
```

### 2) Example prompts for Spring Boot projects

```text
Read .agent/SKILLS.md.
Create endpoint POST /api/v1/orders following skills/shared/api-design.md,
use validation and RFC7807 errors, and add tests based on skills/spring-boot/testing.md.
```

```text
Read .agent/SKILLS.md.
Refactor Order module to respect layered architecture from skills/spring-boot/SKILL.md
and database conventions from skills/shared/database.md.
```

### 3) Example prompts for .NET projects

```text
Read .agent/SKILLS.md.
Implement CreateOrderCommand with MediatR + FluentValidation,
expose controller endpoint, and add unit/integration tests using skills/dotnet/testing.md.
```

```text
Read .agent/SKILLS.md.
Add pagination and ProblemDetails responses to Orders endpoints
following skills/shared/api-design.md.
```

### 4) Keep project-specific rules in `.agent/SKILLS.md`

In **Overrides específicos do projeto**, add concrete rules such as:

- package/solution naming
- auth strategy
- migration paths
- non-functional constraints (timeouts, observability, etc.)

## How to use bootstrap (`@bootstrap`)

The shared `bootstrap` skill helps create/update project context docs in `.agent/`:

- `context.md`
- `architecture.md`
- `decisions.md` (or `adr/`)
- `conventions.md`
- `runbook.md`
- `glossary.md`
- `backlog_rules.md`

### Prompt-driven bootstrap

Use in prompt:

```text
@bootstrap
Read .agent/SKILLS.md, map the repository context, and update all .agent context files.
Do not invent facts: add TODOs for unknowns.
```

### CLI bootstrap (recommended)

```bash
make bootstrap STACK=spring-boot TARGET=$(pwd)
# or
make bootstrap STACK=dotnet TARGET=$(pwd)
```

This guarantees validation and generation happen before installation.

### Suggested bootstrap routine per project

1. Run `make bootstrap STACK=<stack> TARGET=$(pwd)`.
2. Open `.agent/context.md` and fill domain/problem details.
3. Register key architectural choices in `.agent/decisions.md` or `.agent/adr/`.
4. Update `.agent/glossary.md` with domain terminology.
5. Commit `.agent/` together with code changes.

## Invocable skills

SDD includes 6 invocable workflow skills organized in two flows plus two independent skills:

### Feature flow: `@planning` → `@implementation`

| Command | Skill | Purpose |
|---------|-------|---------|
| `@planning` | [planning.md](skills/shared/planning.md) | Design a feature before coding — produces a plan document |
| `@implementation` | [implementation.md](skills/shared/implementation.md) | Execute a plan — implements tasks in order following conventions |

```text
@planning
Plan the feature: user registration with email verification

# After plan review:
@implementation
Execute the plan in .agent/plans/user-registration.md
```

### Test flow: `@test-plan` → `@test`

| Command | Skill | Purpose |
|---------|-------|---------|
| `@test-plan` | [test-plan.md](skills/shared/test-plan.md) | Design a testing strategy — produces a test plan document |
| `@test` | [test.md](skills/shared/test.md) | Write all tests from the plan — unit, integration, edge cases |

```text
@test-plan
Plan tests for the Order module

# After test plan review:
@test
Execute the test plan in .agent/plans/order-tests.md
```

### Independent skills: `@review` and `@refactor`

| Command | Skill | Purpose |
|---------|-------|---------|
| `@review` | [review.md](skills/shared/review.md) | Structured code review against project skills and conventions |
| `@refactor` | [refactor.md](skills/shared/refactor.md) | Restructure code to align with conventions without changing behavior |

```text
@review
Review the changes in the current branch against main.

@refactor
Refactor the Order module to follow skills/spring-boot/SKILL.md layer separation.
```

## Frontmatter required in all skills

Every skill markdown must include:

- `name`
- `description`
- `stack`
- `versions`

## ADR and glossary

Document architecture decisions in `decisions.md` (or `.agent/adr/adr-xxxx.md`) and keep domain terms in `glossary.md`.


## Troubleshooting: PR merge/diff issues

If a PR was merged with conflicts and your branch did not receive the README updates:

1. Confirm the latest commit contains README changes:
   - `git log --oneline -n 5`
   - `git show --name-only <commit_sha>`
2. Rebase your branch on the target branch (`main` or release branch).
3. If needed, cherry-pick the README commit:
   - `git cherry-pick <commit_sha>`
4. Re-run checks:
   - `make check`
5. Open README and confirm sections:
   - "How to use skills in your project"
   - "How to use bootstrap (`@bootstrap`)"

This helps guarantee onboarding docs are present after merge.

## License

MIT.
